# Artifact Appendix

Paper title: **TraCS: Trajectory Collection in Continuous Space under Local Differential Privacy**

Requested Badge(s):
  - [x] **Available**
  - [x] **Functional**
  - [ ] **Reproduced**

## Description

[PETS'26] TraCS: Trajectory Collection in Continuous Space under Local Differential Privacy

Existing trajectory collection methods under LDP are largely confined to discrete location spaces, 
where the size of the location space affects both privacy guarantees and trajectory utility. 
Moreover, many real-world applications, such as flying trajectories or wearable-sensor traces,
naturally operate in continuous spaces, making these discrete-space methods inadequate.

This paper shifts the focus from discrete to continuous spaces for trajectory collection under LDP. 
We propose two methods: TraCS-D, which perturbs the direction and distance of locations, 
and TraCS-C, which perturbs the Cartesian coordinates of locations.
TraCS can also be applied to discrete spaces by rounding perturbed locations to any discrete space embedded in the continuous space. 
In this case, the privacy and utility guarantees of TraCS are independent of the number of locations in the space, 
and each perturbation requires only $\Theta(1)$ time complexity. 

This project demonstrates the advantages of TraCS by comparing its trajectory utility and time cost with those of existing methods.

### Security/Privacy Issues and Ethical Concerns

The artifact does not require any security modifications for installation or execution.
Most evaluations are theoretical or comparative in nature. The dataset included is small and publicly available, with no sensitive information involved.

## Basic Requirements

## Hardware Requirements

The code has been tested on both Windows desktops and wsl environment (with specifications below). Standard hardware with a typical CPU and 16GB of memory should be sufficient.
- CPU: Intel(R) Core(TM) i9-9900K CPU @ 3.60GHz
- Memory: 64GB RAM with speed 2666 MT/s

### Software Requirements

The software requirements for running the artifact are as follows:

1. GUI: The artifact requires a graphical user interface (GUI) to display the figures generated by the scripts. 
   If you are using WSL, ensure that you have an X server installed and configured to display GUI applications from WSL. 
   We recommend using your desptop's native GUI to run the scripts, which can be done by running the commands in PowerShell or Command Prompt (instead of WSL terminal).
2. Operating System: The artifact has been tested on Windows 11 and Ubuntu 22.04 (WSL). It should also work on other operating systems that support Python and Node.js.
3. Artifact packaging: The artifact is a Python 3.12 project packaged with `uv`.
4. Dependencies: All the dependent packages are specified in `./pyproject.toml`. They can be installed using the commands provided later.
5. Dataset: The artifact includes `TKY` and `CHI` datasets, which are included in the repository and do not require additional software to access.

### Estimated Time and Storage Consumption

The estimated time and storage consumption for running the artifact are as follows:

- The overall human and compute times required to run the artifact: Approximately 30 mins for setup and running all experiments.
- The overall disk space consumed by the artifact: Approximately 1GB, including the codebase, dependencies, and datasets.

## Environment

### Accessibility

GitHub repository: https://github.com/ZhengYeah/TraCS

### Set up the environment

**Install UV package manager.** This project is packaged by `uv`, a modern Python package management system similar to `miniconda` or `poetry`. You can install `uv` by following the instructions on their official website: https://docs.astral.sh/uv/. (Remember to add `uv` to your PATH.)

**Clone the repository.** You can clone the repository using the following command:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/ZhengYeah/TraCS.git
cd TraCS
```

**Install Python dependencies.** You should be in the project root directory, which contains the `pyproject.toml` file. Then, run the following uv command:

```bash
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv sync
```
This command creates a virtual environment in the project root with Python version specified in the `.python-version` file (Python 3.12 in this case), and installs the dependencies listed in `pyproject.toml`.

### Testing the Environment 

To verify that the python environment is set up correctly, you can run pip check:

```bash
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv pip check
```
This will print: all installed packages are compatible.

## Artifact Evaluation

### Main Results and Claims

This artifact mainly supports the following two main results in the paper.

#### Main Result 1: TraCS's Effectiveness in Continuous Spaces

In continuous spaces, TraCS significantly outperforms baseline methods (including Laplace mechanism + truncation and the strawman approach in the paper) in terms of trajectory utility.
This part corresponds to Section 4.1 and Figure 4, 5, 6, 7.

#### Main Result 2: TraCS's Effectiveness and Efficiency in Discrete Spaces

In discrete spaces, TraCS achieves comparable or better trajectory utility than existing methods while significantly reducing the time cost.
This part corresponds to Section 4.2 and Figure 8, 9, 10, and Table 3.

### Experiments

Functionality of the paper's main results can be done by running the following scripts in the `reproduction/` directory:

```
AudAgent/ (project root)
├── reproduction/
│   ├── figure_4.py: Figure 4 (Page 10) (≈60 seconds)
│   ├── figure_5.py: Figure 5 (Page 10) (≈10 seconds)
│   ├── figure_6.py: Figure 6 (Page 10) (≈5 seconds)
│   ├── figure_7.py: Figure 7 (Page 11) (≈4 minutes)
│   ├── figure_8.py: Figure 8a (Page 12) (≈30 seconds)
│   ├── figure_9.py: Figure 9b (Page 12) (≈30 seconds)
│   ├── table_3.py: Table 3 (Page 12) (≈15 seconds)
│   ├── figure_10_a.py, figure_10_b.py: Figure 10 (Page 13) (≈2 minutes)
```

To reproduce the results, run these scripts using `uv run`. You don't need to manually activate a virtual environment, but ensure you're not already inside one. For example:

```bash
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv run ./reproduction/figure_4.py
```
will display the corresponding figures using matplotlib.

#### Figures 4, 5, 6, 7: TraCS's Effectiveness in Continuous Spaces 
- Time: ≈6 minutes

Run the following four commands sequentially to reproduce these figures (in Page 10, 11), which compares the trajectory utility (averaged error) of TraCS with baseline methods in continuous spaces.

```bash
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv run ./reproduction/figure_4.py
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv run ./reproduction/figure_5.py
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv run ./reproduction/figure_6.py
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv run ./reproduction/figure_7.py
```

#### Figures 8, 9, 10 and Table 3: TraCS's Effectiveness and Efficiency in Discrete Spaces
- Time: ≈5 minutes

Run the following commands sequentially to reproduce these figures and table (in Page 12, 13), which compares the trajectory utility and time cost of TraCS with existing methods in discrete spaces.

```bash
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv run ./reproduction/figure_8.py
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv run ./reproduction/figure_9.py
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv run ./reproduction/table_3.py
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv run ./reproduction/figure_10_a.py
[PROJECT_ROOT]$ uv run ./reproduction/figure_10_b.py
```

> Note: We omit the reproduction of Figure 8b and 9a, which are similar to Figure 8a and 9b, respectively.
> You may observe the better time-cost results of discrete methods in Table 3 than those the paper. 
> This is because we use Codex to optimize the sampling of the exponential mechanism, which uses `np.searchsorted` to find the sampled value, reducing the time cost from $O(n)$ to $O(\log n)$.
> Nonetheless, the relative time cost of TraCS compared to existing methods is still significantly reduced, which supports our claim.

## Limitations

LDP mechanisms introduce randomness through sampling, which may cause slight variations in results across different runs (even after averaging). However, the overall trends should remain consistent with the figures reported in the paper.

## Notes on Reusability

The artifact is designed to be reusable and adaptable for trajectory collection tasks in continuous spaces under LDP. 
The main classes and methods are implemented in a hierarchical and modular manner, allowing users to easily modify the code for their specific use cases.

At the application level, users can directly use `/src/methods/wrapped_tracs.py` for trajectory collection. 
At a lower level, users can adapt the LDP mechanisms implemented in `/src/ldp_mechanisms.py`; refer to the README file for more details on the code structure and usage.
